# Master-Slave-Bot-Swarm-Bots
Robotics has been used in areas like agriculture, medical,automation education etc. The main aim of our project is toavoid an obstacle based on the inputs provided by the server bots. Robotics is a branch of technology which deals with the study, design, and implementation of robots, Whereas a robot is a programmed machine which is capable of carrying out some specified task which has been assigned by the programmer or the user. Swarm robotics is the implementation of swarm intelligence into robotic for obstacle avoidance.
Swarm is defined as a large group of insects or people, especially honey bees, ants etc. Swarm intelligence is the artificial intelligence based on the study of collective behavior of decentralized and self-organized systems. The natural swarm intelligence has been implemented for the master and the slave robot, the master when encounters any obstacles it shares the information of the obstacle with the slave robot, the sensors used are the ultrasonic sensors which ranges from several inches to some feet’s. These sensors any obstacle in the path of the robots and sends the signal to the controller, based on the information from the sensor the controller guides the robot in a clear path, the same information will be shared with the slave robot to overcome the obstacle as it will be following the path of the master robot. This sharing of information with the slave robot helps to reduce the time and also the efforts required for slave robot to avoid the obstacle, eventually reducing cost as well as time.
